In this video, we're going to be
running the erase tool as when
we created the buffer zone
around the oil rig, we saw that
it overlaps with the No Take
zone that we're proposing.
And as this oil rig is already
established, we need to create
our No Take zone around this
buffer.
So what we want to do is we want
to remove this intersection from
our proposed No Take zone.
So let's find the erase tool.
We're going to the Geoprocessing
pane and type in erase, and it's
the top tool, and this is a
really simple tool to run.
The first thing parameter we
need to put in is the input
feature.
And so this is going to be the
layer that we're applying the
erase tool to.
So that's going to be our
spawning grounds layer as we
need to cut the intersection out
of this layer.
And the erase feature is what
layer we're using to tell Arc
GIS where to cut our input
layer.
So this is going to be the oil
rig buffer and then we just need
to choose where to save the new
layer to and what to name it.
So we'll make sure that we're in
our Geodatabase and we can name
it something like spawning
months erased, click save.
And now we can run the tool and
now we can see this new layer in
our contents.
So we'll just toggle off the oil
rig buffer layer and the
original spawning months no take
layer.
And now we can see that this new
layer has got the intersection
with the oil rig buffer removed
from it.
So you can see how ArcGIS Pro
has used the oil rig buffer
layer to cut a section from this
this new layer.
And if we zoom out, we can see
where it's taken that
intersection out.
And so that's how to run an
erase tool in ArcGIS Pro.
Just remember to hit save.